# Dice Algebra Calculator Written in C

A dice algebra expression parser & calculator written in C. 
The purpose of writing this application is to have fun trying out C by writing a simple application.
A dice algebra calculator (including lexing, parsing, and execution of string expressions) was selected as something that is probably complex enough to be interesting yet is simple enough to do in a single afternoon.
It's also something that can be extended later if that seems like it would be fun (e.g. this application could run a GUI window in which expressions can be input & a breakdown of the results can be shown, etc.).

## Dice Algebra

This application supports dice expressions including...

#### Dice rolls
`xdy` or `xDy` (where both `x` and `y` must be integers) will roll a `y`-sided die `x` times.

For example, `3d6` will roll a 6-sided die three times and sum the results.

The leading `x` may be omitted if it is 1. For example, `d4` rolls a 4-sided die one time.

#### ...

...under construction...

## ANTLR Grammar

The above dice algebra format can be expressed as the following ANTLR grammar.

```ANTLR
// Parser

add: mult (('+' | '-') mult)* ;

mult: atom (('*' | '/') atom)* ;

atom: (roll | '(' add ')') ;

roll : (integer | longroll | shortroll) ;

longroll : integer D integer ((H integer | L integer))? ;

shortroll : D integer ; 

integer : NUMBER ;

// Lexer

WHITESPACE : ' ' -> skip ;
NUMBER     : '-'?[0-9]+ ;
D : 'd' | 'D' ;
PLUS : '+' ;
MINUS : '-' ;
MULT: '*' ;
DIV : '/' ;
OPENPAREN : '(' ;
CLOSEPAREN : ')' ;
H : 'h' | 'H' ;
L: 'l' | 'L' ;
```

## Building

This project uses [CMake](https://cmake.org/) with [CMake presets](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-presets.7.html).

Please note that all presets are configured for use on Linux.

### For Local Development

For local development & debugging, there are CMake presets for both [GCC](https://gcc.gnu.org/) (`debug-gcc`) and [Clang](https://clang.llvm.org/) (`debug-clang`). 

Both of these compile with verbose warnings and run the [Clang Tidy](https://clang.llvm.org/extra/clang-tidy/) linter on the source code. Note that you will need to have `clang-tidy` installed for this to work.

These presets may be generated by running the following commands at the root of this repository.

```bash
cmake --preset debug-gcc
cmake --preset debug-clang
```

These two commands create the directories `out/build/debug-gcc` and `out/build/debug-clang`, respectively, containing the generated build systems. 
